Coming into this class, the three of us (Maggie, Andy, and John) knew very little about web development. Even HTML was new to us as aspiring software developers/engineers. This meant that at the outset of homework 1 we were thrust into a new environment. We, thankfully, had few challenges in coding HTML but when we began coding in CSS the issue of keeping everything neat and tidy was more and more apparent. None of us are front-end developers so having the intuition of design was difficult for us. As for HW 3, the beginning of our experience with Javascript, we found ourselves starved of time as the project was fairly large in scope and our deadlines were pretty short (keeping in mind that this is a 5 week course). However, we persevered and with our experience of the backend Javascript felt a little more “at-home” for us. Performance-wise, we excelled in terms of load times and punctuality of our websites functions and I don’t think there is much more to say on this point. The lessons we learned were many. We learned that choice of technology was sometimes critical to how the website functioned and how we were forced to code. For instance, using JQuery vs. VanillaJS was a hard transition since we were using comparisons and element retrieval techniques that were completely invalid in the other library. The iterative approach we used for the homeworks made things interesting to say the least. Watching our application grow similarly, in a sense, to how a project might look at work was certainly more enriching than creating small projects that we would have thrown out every time we made them. Using this approach taught us that creating a web page or a project with the future in mind is necessary. Attempting to make a fully functional web page from scratch using only HTML and then back-tracking to implement CSS and then once again backtracking to implement javascript without knowing what the final product would look like is certainly a very bit pitfall and taught us that every one of these languages has its own function and a best practice should be to not mix and match. 
John Hurst
Magdalena Ninette
Andy Thai


